Opal 1.2 release blog post (#71)
opal/opal.github.io: source/blog/2021-08-09-opal-1-2.html.md

#### Methods

There are quite a lot of new methods, some of which got introduced in Ruby 3.0, some earlier.

Opal 1.2:
- `{Random,SecureRandom}#{hex,base64,urlsafe_base64,uuid,random_float,random_number,alphanumeric}`
- `String#{+@,-@}`
- `Hash#except!`
- `{Array,Hash,Struct}#{deconstruct,deconstruct_keys}`

Opal 1.1:
- `Array#{difference,intersection,union}`
- `Enumerable#{filter_map,tally}`
- `Kernel#then`
- `{Proc,Method}#{<<,>>}`
- `Integer#to_d`

#### Breaking changes

Since Opal 1.2, we now follow the Ruby 3.0 semantics for `Array#{to_a,slice,[],uniq,*,difference,-,intersection,&,union,|}` and therefore those don't return an Array subclass anymore, but simply an Array.

#### What isn't there

[We are still using keyword arguments in the Ruby 2.6 style](https://github.com/opal/opal/issues/2241). We want the future releases to warn on the incompatibilities, just like Ruby 2.7 did, to provide a smooth migration curve.

Ractor isn't implemented and likely won't be anytime soon. JavaScript has a very different threading model to Ruby.

### ObjectSpace finalizer support and ObjectSpace::WeakMap implementation (Opal 1.2)

> A destructor in Ruby? And also in a niche JavaScript Ruby implementation? Yes!

Reviewer: niche → nice?

Author: I meant niche, as in, little-known-about, but if you happen to have some better sounding alternative, feel free to change it :D

_You need to do `require "corelib/object_space"` to use those features._

### `begin ... end while ...` (Opal 1.2)

Matz doesn't like this feature as it is inconsistent with how other Ruby postfix flow control constructs work. But it looks similar to `do { ... } while(...)` - and this is how it works. Now, also in Opal!

> ### [experimental] Native Promises (Opal 1.2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Native Promises (Opal 1.2 - experimental)
```

When Opal was first conceived, JavaScript didn't have Promises (or they weren't so universally supported), so we made our own. Now, that Promises in JavaScript are a big thing, well integrated into the language, we made a new kind of Promise (PromiseV2), that _bridges_ the native JavaScript promise and is (mostly) compatible with the current Opal Promise (later called PromiseV1).

By _bridges_ I mean that conversion between JavaScript and Opal values is seamless. Just as you can pass numbers, strings or arrays between those two ecosystems, Promises (only PromiseV2) will join that pack now.

> There are some slight incompatibilities which is why we include both versions, and PromiseV2 is defined as experimental. This allows us to state, that it's behavior may change in the future (until deemed un-experimental). This is so that we can foster a discussion about how to support the `async/await` pattern the best in the next release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some slight incompatibilities which is why we include both versions, and PromiseV2 is defined as experimental. This allows us to state, that it's behavior may change in the future (until deemed un-experimental). This is so also to foster a discussion about how to best support `async/await` in the next release.
```

String are still immutable, (Regexps are still somewhat incompatible)[https://opalrb.com/blog/2021/06/26/webassembly-and-advanced-regexp-with-opal/], asynchronous methods can't be implemented in a Ruby synchronous style. Those features we plan for Opal 2.0 or later on, as they will require a lot of changes.

## Ecosystem

All Gems from the opal-* namespace are compatible with the Opal 1.2 release. The new opal-browser version is up for a release soon, until then, we recommend you use the `master` branch!

From the outside of the core ecosystem, we have seen quite a lot of development, there are at least a few very interesting things that were done using Opal:

* [Glimmer DSL for Opal](https://github.com/AndyObtiva/glimmer-dsl-opal) - an (experimental) platform-agnostic (web with Opal, desktop with SWT or Tk) toolkit for graphical applications. Write once, run anywhere!
* [18xx.games](https://18xx.games) - a website where you can play async or real-time 18xx games
* [Hyperstack](https://hyperstack.org/) - a well documented and stable Ruby DSL for wrapping React and ReactRouter as well as any JavaScript library or component. No need to learn JavaScript!

## Conclusion

> If you are unsure yet, Opal doesn't just _feel_ like Ruby, it _IS_ Ruby. It is absolutely possible to create a website with pure Ruby and not a single line of JavaScript (and a good performance!). In the advent of solutions like Hotwire, Opal goes a step higher and allows you to create fully isomorphic websites (with a fully fledged support for human language alike DSLs). Forget context switches from CoffeeScript to Ruby when you develop a feature, it's all Ruby!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unsure yet, Opal doesn't just _feel_ like Ruby, it _IS_ Ruby. It is absolutely possible to create a website with pure Ruby and not a single line of JavaScript (and a good performance!). In the advent of solutions like Hotwire, Opal goes a step higher and allows you to create fully isomorphic websites (with a fully fledged support for human language alike DSLs). Forget context switches from JavaScript, TypeScript, or even CoffeeScript to Ruby when you develop a feature, it's all Ruby!
```

CoffeeScript is not very liked nowadays and also less likely to be the compiler of choice for most application, so let's add a couple that you'll likely encounter in a modern Rails app.
